# Big Data with Spark Project
This project will explore the features of air pollution from sensors with data provided by OpenAQ, a nonprofit organization providing access to air quality data. We will employ supervised and unsupervised learning techniques. We will also use regression models to predict the type of pollutants from given features. Finally, we will apply clustering algorithms to cluster locations with similar pollution levels.

## Data Exploration
During the Data Exploration process, we downloaded the pollution data from OpenAQ which was housed on AWS. The data was downloaded into compressed csv.gz files which needed to be decompressed into csv files. After this, a DataFrame was created with specified schema from the csv files. This DataFrame was converted to a RDD and pickled so that it could be used later once the notebook was re-opened, so that we would not have to wait for the DataFrame to be re-created.

After this, we looked at the DataFrame. Before pre-processing, there were approximately 26 million observations. Null values and values pertaining to the pollutant that were less than or equal to zero were removed. These could be due to a sensor malfunction, as it would not make sense to have less than zero concentration, and would thus be recognized as outliers which would skew our data analysis. This parsed data was also pickled to use more readily.

From there, a specific sensor for a specific pollutant was visualized over time to see if there were trends. At first glance, it seemed like for sensor 1803 at location_id 1000, PM10 levels were generally higher at the beginning of the year. We looked at statistics of the numerical values and one hot encoded the categorical variables to use for machine learning purposes.

As mentioned before, we decided to work with data related to air pollution in the United States. We noticed negative percentiles, particularly in the longitude column, these are expected in locations in the western hemisphere, such as those in the western states like California, Oregon, and Washington. Therefore, the negative percentiles in the longitude column suggest that a significant portion of the dataset includes geographic locations primarily in the western United States. We also created an interactive plot of the US pertaining to the sensor, parameters, and locations.
